git clone <url> - get the repository in the github cloud on your machine

git status - check the difference between your local git dir and the github repostiory

git add <filename>- add the particular file specified in your local machine to the git repository 
git add -A - add all the differences in your local machine to the git repository
git add . - add all the difference in your local machine to the git repository

git commit - commit the difference in your local machine to the git hub repository
git commit -a - stage and commit all the tracked files without doing "git add" first.
git commit -m "message" - write the commit message while committing the changes without opening up the editor.

git log - shows all the commits in the repository in a reverse chronological order.

git push - sync the git repository and your local machine git dir

git pull - sync the data on the github repository on your local machine.

git reset - undos all the staged changes in the repository.
git reset <filename> - undos the staged changes of the selected file.
git reset HEAD - (HEAD is a pointer to the latest commit) restores the current repository state and removes all the changes in workspace.
git reset HEAD~n - goes back n (n is an integer starting from 1) commits and restores the repository state of that commit.
git reset <commit hash> - restores to a particular commit (denoted by its commit hash) in history.
git reset --hard <commit hash> - restores to a particular commit (denoted by its commit hash) in history and clean the workspace.

git checkout <branch name> - switch to another branch in the git folder.
git checkout -b <branch name> - creates a new branch and switch to it.

git branch - displays all the branches available in the repository.
git branch - creates a new branch but does not switches to it.
git branch -d <branch name> - deletes a particular branch.

git diff - displays the difference in the repository state and the current workspace state.
git diff <branch name> - get the difference between the current branch and the branch name.

git fetch - fetches the changes from the remote repository (eg. the github repository) and updates the local repository (eg. the .git file in the local machine).
git merge - merges the changes the changes in the local repository into the current workspace. It can also be used to merge the code in two different branches in one branch. However, usually PR (pull requests) are made. PR means pushing the code on the sub branch onto the remote repository and then making a request to pull the code into the master branch.

NOTE: git fetch and git merge is basically git pull in two different steps.
